Bugs:

Done: hazardj kludged this by removing <title>  could be cleaned up.  
Put the page name, not the site name, in the title of the page (so you can see it in the history). 
Could REALLY use an error report when something doesn't render.  1) because there is no Model.Root or 2) bz a file is missing (misspelled, etc.).  Model.Root missing should return {Model.Root}.  Missing page should return the name of the file/page we were looking for. 


Get rid of the calls to outside http done in the framing of pages.  

I can't actually use the browser-based editing bz of privileges problem.  Work this out.  Could be far more productive.

Let's keep our eye out for what causes the problem with pull at .Org





Features:

Get some of the rest of the team making documents.  Will show the strengths and weaknesses.

Interface the parser to Eclipse or another IDE. So can render from Eclipse. 

What links here?  Backlinks (happy to adopt other vocabulary).

Provide values for Missing fields (e.g., a text appears next to each missing field, the user optionally enters text, the text is saved as key=value at the top of the text. (DO NOT make entry of text mandatory.  Most of the time we don't want to complete the fields.)   Please also add a false missing field called "Comment" so the user can add comments when they want. 

In rendered view, mark text based on where it comes from.  

UI- Slide a different person (or other file) into a deal.  Take one out. 

Hmmm - think about this for future - I already to symlinks in the data model to a particular file.  (A file that is only =[other_file]) Think about how one would do a symlink to another folder and whether it would be useful.  Seems like it might be very useful.  But not needed for demo.


JH-Did:

Removed second copy Doc2 from the repository.

Moved /about/include.php to /about/vision/include.php to get it out of the way.  Seems to be a duplicate of /explore.php.  Delete?

  

For the future:  

Render view now takes a couple of steps to see updated.  Refresh page and click Render.  

